#summary New? Start here! Frequently Asked Questions.
#labels Phase-Support,FrequentlyAskedQuestions,FAQs,Featured

=Frequently Asked Questions=

==About !TabGroups Manager and this project==

_What's "!TabGroups Manager"?_

<blockquote>!TabGroups Manager (TGM) is a well known Firefox extension, originally written by *Axel Shootingstar*. It gives Firefox users a way to "group" tabs in a tab group bar (for example "Home", "Work", "Project 1", "Research", "Social media") so that different tasks can be seen and managed efficiently. 

By default, Firefox uses a hidden graphical panel for this which isn't always the best or desired way. It's often easier to have the groups visible as you browse, and be able to style the tabs and groups according to status, easily drag/drop between them, or suspend and hibernate tab groups to save memory or speed up Firefox.

A lot of this functionality is missing in Firefox. Experienced and heavy users (people using Firefox for work, people sharing browsers, enthusiasts, users with "lots of tabs") often find it extremely helpful. TGM adds it.</blockquote>

_What's this project for?_

<blockquote>Extensions are developed by volunteers. Axel Shootingstar ceased developing TGM and closed his personal websites (including those related to TGM) a while ago. So TGM has not had a maintainer since 2011. Some features introduced in Firefox 20 or Firefox 21 (early 2013) changed how TGM worked, so TGM doesn't work as well as it should with these versions of Firefox (you can avoid these issues but they're annoying to experienced users!). Firefox 25 (October 2013) is expected to change a lot more and require more work to keep up to date.

So really there are only 2 choices: other volunteers have to bring !TabGroups Manager up to date ("fork" it), or it ends. This site should make clear which way people chose for this very popular extension :-)</blockquote>

_Who's behind this and how's it going?_

<blockquote>xtrm_xtrm offered to try and figure out how TGM works and to bring the code up to date. A few others (Dr Zev included) are supporting him in his efforts. Anyone who can help, please do! And if anyone does find Axel or he returns, we'd love that, too!

That said, we just started! (June 2013) So far the extension is patched to work on Firefox 20+ but a few important issues still exist (see "known issues"), and we need to get those fixed and then consider the major that are required to work with Firefox 25. Keep checking, and offer to help if you can!</blockquote>

==Useful links==

_Mozilla Add-Ons page (information, screenshots, old versions):_
<blockquote>http://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/tabgroups-manager</blockquote>

_Latest info, downloads, issues, feedback, suggestions, support:_

<blockquote>http://code.google.com/p/tabgroupsmanager</blockquote>

== Making !TabGroups Manager work, and "known issues" ==

TGM mostly works. This section lists the few issues this project aims to fix.

Always use the latest TGM on the project downloads page and check the release notes (link above). There are not many issues, and you won't damage Firefox by using TGM if it doesn't work. The main risk is that tabs can be "lost" in some cases, so read the notes to find out more.

  * Detailed info - see [MakingTGMWork_and_KnownIssues]

=New issues, issue reporting, and troubleshooting=

_Cannot find an issue:_

  * When searching for an issue, you may also select *All Issues* instead of only Open Issues. At this moment there aren't many issues but we will be adding more.

_!TabGroups Manager doesnt work:_

  * Please check that your version of !TabGroups Manager is updated in Firefox Extensions.

_ HELLLP!_

  * Anything else - check existing issues and [MakingTGMWork_and_KnownIssues]. If it's not in that list, it's possible that it is something about your own setup of Firefox. Ask on the extension review thread, or Mozilla forums, or on the links provided on this project page, try usual troubleshooting steps (such as selectively disabling other extensions, or reinstalling, or a clean profile) and see if anyone can help narrow it down!