#summary Frequently Asked Questions.
#labels Phase-Support,FrequentlyAskedQuestions,FAQs

=Frequently Asked Questions=

==About Tab Groups Manager and this project==

_What's "Tab Groups Manager"?_

<blockquote>Tab Groups Manager (TGM) is a well known Firefox extension, originally written by *Axel Shootingstar*. It gives Firefox users a way to "group" tabs in a tab group bar (for example "Home", "Work", "Project 1", "Research", "Social media") so that different tasks can be seen and managed efficiently. 

Firefox provides this but it's done by a hidden graphical panel which isn't always the best or desired way to do it, and for busy users and people who use a lot of tabs, it's often easier to have the groups visible while you browse, and be able to style the tabs and groups according to status, easily drag/drop between them, or suspend and hibernate some groups to save memory or speed up Firefox.

A lot of this group handling functionality is missing from Firefox. Experienced and heavy users (people using Firefox for work, people sharing browsers, enthusiasts, users with "lots of tabs") often find this to be extremely helpful. TGM adds it.</blockquote>

_What's this project for?_

<blockquote>Extensions are developed by volunteers. Axel Shootingstar ceased developing TGM and closed his personal websites (including those related to TGM) a while ago. So TGM has not had a maintainer since 2011. Some features introduced in Firefox 20 or Firefox 21 (early 2013) changed how TGM worked, so TGM doesn't work as well as it should with these versions of Firefox (you can avoid these issues but they're annoying to experienced users!). Firefox 25 (October 2013) is expected to change a lot more and require more work to keep up to date.

So really there are only 2 choices: other volunteers have to bring TabGroups Manager up to date ("fork" it), or it ends. This site is the answer to the question "which way did people choose for this very popular extension".</blockquote>

_Who's behind this and how's it going?_

<blockquote>xtrm_xtrm offered to try and figure out how TGM works and to bring the code up to date. A few others (Dr Zev included) are supporting him in his efforts. Anyone who can help, please do! And if anyone does find Axel or he returns, we'd love that, too!

That said, we just started! (June 2013) So far the extension is patched to work on Firefox 20+ but a few important issues still exist (see "known issues"), and we need to get those fixed and then consider the major that are required to work with Firefox 25. Keep checking, and offer to help if you can!</blockquote>

==Useful links==

_Mozilla page for TabGroups Manager, information, screenshots, old versions:_
<blockquote>http://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/tabgroups-manager</blockquote>

_Latest info, downloads, issue/bug reports, feedback, suggestions, and support:_
<blockquote>We're putting this together, see project page for latest information:

    * http://code.google.com/p/tabgroupsmanager</blockquote>

== Making TabGroups Manager work, and "known issues" ==

TGM mostly works. This section lists the few issues this project aims to fix.

Always use the latest TGM on the project downloads page and check the release notes (link above). There are not many issues, and you won't damage Firefox by using TGM if it doesn't work. The main risk is that tabs can be "lost" in some cases, so read the notes to find out more.

===All versions / general info===
  * You can check which version of Firefox you're using by checking "Help > About Firefox". 

  * If you want to go back to Firefox 18 or 19 to make TGM work, it's easy. But you might have to check compatibility of other extensions if they were updated recently.

===Firefox UP TO version 18.0.2 or 19:===

  * TGM currently works best with versions of Firefox up to 18.0.2 (or perhaps 19, see below). It is reliable, stable, safe, and useful.<p><p>There is one important issue:<p><p>You <u>MUST</u> go to about:config (which allows you to change hidden settings in Firefox) and change one setting yourself. *You need to change the setting browser.sessionstore.restore_hidden_tabs from 'false' to 'true'*. This makes sure tabs cannot sometimes be "lost". Details below - it's easy :)

  * Other minor known issues are that the number of hibernated tab groups doesn't get updated during a session, and tab drag/drop of multiple tabs may not always work, these are annoyances but mostly minor, they won't stop you benefiting from TGM.

===Firefox version 19:===

  * It isn't clear if Firefox 19 works nicely, like Firefox 18.0.2, or has a few glitches like Firefox 20. You might want to play around with this.

===Firefox version 20 to 24:===

  * The notes for Firefox up to 18 or 19 apply. There are also two new glitches to be aware of, with these versions of Firefox: - suspended groups are LOST on restart/restore, and tabs and groups are reloaded OUT OF ORDER (ie mixed up order) when a session restarts or reloads. 

  * Otherwise TGM works, so if you avoid suspending tab groups and can cope with a bit of re-ordering (on starting/ending/saving/restoring sessions) then you'll be fine.

===Firefox 25+:===

  * Firefox 25 will introduce major changes affecting many extensions. It'll require work to make TGM work properly in all ways with Firefox 25.

=New issues, issue reporting, and troubleshooting=

_Cannot find an issue:_

  * When searching for an issue, you may also select *All Issues* instead of only Open Issues. At this moment there aren't many issues but we will be adding more.

_TabGroups Manager doesnt work:_

  * Please check that your version of TabGroups Manager is updated in Firefox Extensions.

_ HELLLP!_

  * Anything else - check existing issues and if it's not in that list, it's possible that it is something about your own setup of Firefox. Ask on the extension review thread, or Mozilla forums, or on the links provided on this project page, try usual troubleshooting steps (such as selectively disabling other extensions, or reinstalling, or a clean profile) and see if anyone can help narrow it down!


= Notes =

To change the item in "about:config":

  * Type about:config into your address bar (where you would type any website address. if it asks if you're sure, click "ok" ( or"I'll be good!")
  * In the filter box at the top, type "restore" which should shorten the list of advanced settings a lot.
  * Find the setting "browser.sessionstore.restore_hidden_tabs". if it says 'false' next to it, double-click it. It should go bold and turn to 'true'.
  * You're done. Close the page and do whatever you were going to do next, anyway!